=pod

=head1 NAME

unibi_format, unibi_run - interpret a terminfo format string

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include <unibilium.h>
  
  void unibi_format(
      unibi_var_t var_dyn[26],
      unibi_var_t var_static[26],
      const char *fmt,
      unibi_var_t param[9],
      void (*out)(void *, const char *, size_t),
      void *ctx1,
      void (*pad)(void *, size_t, int, int),
      void *ctx2
  );
  
  size_t unibi_run(const char *fmt, unibi_var_t param[9], char *p, size_t n);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<unibi_format> takes a format string I<fmt> and executes it. All output is
done by (possibly repeated) calls to I<out>. In the calls to I<out> the first
argument is always I<ctx1>, the second argument is a pointer to a chunk of
data, and the third argument is a count specifying the size of the chunk in
bytes.

I<pad> is used when the format string contains C<< $<...> >> padding
instructions. In the calls to I<pad> the first argument is always I<ctx2>, the
second argument is the delay in tenths of milliseconds, the third argument is a
boolean flag indicating whether C<*> (proportional delay) was specified in the
format string, and the fourth argument is a boolean flag indicating whether
C</> (forced padding) was specified in the format string. Thus a format string
of C<< $<5/> >> would translate into C<pad(ctx2, 50, 0, 1)>. You may pass a
null pointer for I<pad>; in that case padding instructions are silently
skipped.

The values of I<param> are used for the format codes C<%p1> .. C<%p9>; the
values of I<var_dyn> and I<var_static> are used for the so-called
dynamic/static variables C<%Pa> .. C<%Pz> and C<%PA> .. C<%PZ>, respectively.

C<unibi_run> is a wrapper around C<unibi_format>. It passes two arrays (each
initialized to 26 zeroes) as I<var_dyn> and I<var_static>. I<fmt> and I<param>
are passed on unchanged. It ignores padding and places all normal output in the
buffer pointed to by I<p>. I<n> is the size of the buffer; at most I<n> bytes
will be written to I<p>.

=head1 RETURN VALUE

C<unibi_run> returns the number of bytes that would have been written if the
buffer was big enough. Thus the number of valid bytes in I<p> after a call to
C<unibi_run> is the minimum of I<n> and the return value of C<unibi_run>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<unibilium.h(3)>

=cut
